# Internationalization and Localization

::: tip FYI
_Internationalization_ is commonly abbreviated as _i18n_ (which stands for "an _i_, some 18 characters - _nternationalizatio_ - and a final _n_"). _Localization_ is commonly abbreviated _l10n_ accordingly.
:::

Internationalization is a process of preparing software to use different values when run in context of different locales. Localization is the follow-up process of defining and providing the values to be used in a particular locale.

Forms Processor enables most string literals provided in a definition to be internationalized and immediately localized. Instead of providing a single string you can provide an object mapping one or more locale identifiers into localized versions of the intended string.

Consider following definition of a field's label:

```yaml
- label: First Name
```

This results in using label "First Name" no matter what locale is marked current in a user's browser. Internationalizing this example would be as simple as this:

```yaml
- label: 
    en: First Name
```

In fact, this won't change the label's behaviour. It would read "First Name" no matter what locale is marked current in a user's browser. That's because an English translation is used as ultimate fallback when there is no translation matching user's locale.

But now you can simply add further translation, e.g. for German:

```yaml
- label: 
    en: First Name
    de: Vorname
```

If you want to declare different fallback than English you may provide translation for special "locale identifier" `any`:

```yaml
- label: 
    en: First Name
    any: Vorname
```

In this example, English translation is used for users with English locale set in browser. Any other locale results in use of German translation.

Order of definition does not matter, thus the following example is equivalent to the previous one:

```yaml
- label: 
    any: Vorname
    en: First Name
```
