docs/api.md, before:

# The Forms API

By injecting forms processor into your HTML document an API is exposed as `FormsProcessor` in global scope of your document. It is thus replacing any preliminary configuration of forms to be injected into your document which happens to be provided in same global variable by design. On injection the API is instantly processing that configuration.

## Exposed API in Detail

### `create( element, options )`

Invoke this method to create (another) forms processor attached to selected element of your HTML document.

* `element` is referring to a single element of your document. Optionally, it might be a string containing CSS-like selector so the forms processor is choosing first matching element of your document.
* `options` is an object providing created processor's configuration.

#### Supported Processor Options

##### id

* Type: `string`
* Default: `""`
* Localizable: no

A form should have a _permanently_ unique identifier. It is used on persisting entered data to the user's local storage and on sending all presented forms' input data to some remote service eventually. 

That's why the identifier should be uniquely addressing the occasion for presenting the form such as a particular checkout process or participation in a survey, no matter if the user is opening same forms multiple times on multiple occasions of same type doing so simultaneously or in a distance of years. 

If a user is permitted to run the same sequence of forms multiple times on different occasions by intention different IDs should be provided in this option each time the user is running it. On the other hand if you want to support user filling the form successively over multiple invocations you need to provide same ID.

##### name

* Type: `string`
* Default: value of `id`
* Localizable: no

Every sequence of forms may have a name which is an _temporary_ identifier to distinguish it from multiple sequences injected into the same HTML document. Thus it should be unique in context of a running HTML document, but it doesn't need to be permanently unique like the ID.

##### definition

* Type: `string`
* Default: _none_
* Localizable: no

This is the URL of a JSON file defining forms to be processed. See the separate description on [how to define a sequence of forms](definition/README.md).

### `addField( typeName, implementationOrFactory )`

This method registers type of field with current instance of Forms Processor. This type of field becomes available in all sequences of forms _created afterwards_.

* `typeName` is a string containing the name of type of field to be registered. This name is normalized by means of being trimmed and converted to all lowercase characters.
* `implementationOrFactory` is either some _class_ implementing particular behaviour of new type of field or some function generating this implementation on demand.

See the separate document on [how to create custom types of fields](./definition/fields/custom-fields.md) for more details.

### `addProcessor( typeName, implementationOrFactory )`

When user is submitting last form in a sequence of forms a defined sequence of input data processors is invoked passing data returned by one input data processor into next one. The list of input data processors is customized in definition of sequence of forms.

This method enables registration of new types of input data processors with current instance of Forms Processor to be available in all sequences of forms _created afterwards_.

* `typeName` is a string containing the name of type of input data processor to be registered. This name is normalized by means of being trimmed and converted to all lowercase characters.
* `implementationOrFactory` is either some _class_ implementing particular behaviour of new type of input data processor or some function generating this implementation on demand. In most cases providing factory function is preferred as it enables implementation to be properly derived from abstract base class as required by FormsProcessor.

  The factory function is invoked with [required base class of generated implementation](https://git.cepharum.de/cepharum/forms/client/blob/develop/src/model/form/processor/abstract.js). To simplify inheritance setup with legacy Javascript this class exposes static method `makeInherit()` to be invoked with constructor function of new _class_ to become type's implementation. You need to set up inheritance before replacing elements of related prototype.
  
  ```javascript
  FormsProcessor.addProcessor( "encrypt", function( abstract ) {
    const encryptor = abstract.makeInherit( function( definition ) {
      this.$super( definition );
    
      // put your constructor code here
    } );

    encryptor.prototype.process = function( data ) {
      return Promise.resolve( data );  	
    };

    return encryptor;
  } );
  ```
  
  The same is possible with ES6 classes probably requiring to transpile the code for supporting older browsers:

  ```javascript
  FormsProcessor.addProcessor( "encrypt", function( Abstract ) {
    return class EncryptProcessor extends Abstract {
      process( data ) {
        return Promise.resolve( data );  	
      }
    };
  } );
  ```

A custom input data processor must overload this method:

* `process( data )` ([see source](https://git.cepharum.de/cepharum/forms/client/blob/develop/src/model/form/processor/abstract.js#L59))

  This method is invoked with all input data provided by user while filling the forms in a sequence (in case of being first selected input data processor) or with data as returned from previous input data processor in a row of such processors.
  
  Every input data processor should return some data. Whenever an input data processor isn't adjusting the provided data it should return the originally provided data, at least. By returning promise for resulting data the method may start asynchronous processes. This will defer invocation of further input data processors.

### `addTranslations( locale, translationsOverlay )`

FormsProcessor has internationalization support built in. Internal fields use lookup trees providing translations for current locale. This method is provided to add custom overlays to extend or replace existing entries in a translation tree.

::: tip Info
Translations are organized as "trees" by means of mapping some lookup string into a translation or into another object mapping from lookup strings into a translation or yet another object etc.
:::

On rendering hints and errors on a field code might use `@` followed by a translation's name using dot notation syntax instead of some actual string to be used. Abstract field implementation will detect those strings and look up related translations for eventual use. On adding custom fields and processors you may use this syntax in combination with additional translations to utilize this localization support.

Any provided overlay of translations is associated with a particular locale to be selected in first argument. Multiple overlays per locale may be provided in succeeding invocations of this method with each overlay extending or replacing elements of previously applied overlay.

Due to the fact that API works in a global scope probably managing multiple instances of FormsProcessor with each one considering different locale to be current one, there is no possibility using this API to detect current locale and provide translation for that locale, only. Due to controlling all instances of FormsProcessor your code might have an option to decide what translations is required, though.

Applying translations affect FormsProcessor instances created afterwards, only.

### `FormsProcessor.runConfiguration()`


By invoking `FormsProcessor.runConfiguration()` a single configuration defining fields and processors to register as well as sequences of forms to inject in current HTML document is conveniently customizing injected Forms Processor. The provided configuration is expected to basically comply with one of two structures.

### Simple Structure

If you don't want to register any custom input processor or type of field it's sufficient to provide an array of form components to be injected into HTML document as soon as the forms processor has been loaded.

Every element in this array is yet another array consisting of these sub-elements:

1. First sub-element is a reference on an HTML element or a CSS query used to select first matching element of current HTML document. This element will be used to attach another forms component to.
2. Second sub-element is an object providing individual customizations of forms component to be injected. This includes provision of URL used to fetch forms' definition from.

### Complex Structure

In case you want to register custom input processors or additional types of fields you need to use a more complex structure. It starts with an object containing one or more of the following properties:

#### sequences

This property takes an array of component descriptors to be processed as soon as the forms processor has been loaded. This array is equivalent to the simple structure of configuration described before. 

#### fields

This object maps names a field's type name into a function returning class instantiated for every field of that type used in injected forms' definition. This pattern is required due to any such class must properly inherit from an abstract base class defined by loaded forms processor. Thus you can't preliminary configure custom types of fields without loading the forms processor first but have to postpone definition of a type's class until then. 

The factory callback is invoked with required base class in its first argument. This base class is exposing static method `makeInherit()` taking constructor of the desired sub-class to help with creating an actually inheriting class the original way. 

```javascript
function generateNewType( abstract ) {
	const newType = abstract.makeInherit( function( form, definition, fieldIndex, reactiveFieldInfo ) {
		this.$super( form, definition, fieldIndex, reactiveFieldInfo );
	} );

	newType.prototype.validate = function() { ... };

	return newType;
}
```

Of course using ES6 class syntax is possible as well:

```javascript
function generateNewType( abstract ) {
	return class NewType extends abstract {
		validate() { ... };
	};
}
```

#### processors

This object works mostly similar to the one in property `fields` above but maps type names of custom input processors into functions invoked with a different abstract base class for generating the related class of input processor instances per type.

Commit message:

adding brief docs on new support for adding custom term functions

docs/api.md, after:

# The Forms API

By injecting forms processor into your HTML document an API is exposed as `FormsProcessor` in global scope of your document. It is thus replacing any preliminary configuration of forms to be injected into your document which happens to be provided in same global variable by design. On injection the API is instantly processing that configuration.

## Exposed API in Detail

### `create( element, options )`

Invoke this method to create (another) forms processor attached to selected element of your HTML document.

* `element` is referring to a single element of your document. Optionally, it might be a string containing CSS-like selector so the forms processor is choosing first matching element of your document.
* `options` is an object providing created processor's configuration.

#### Supported Processor Options

##### id

* Type: `string`
* Default: `""`
* Localizable: no

A form should have a _permanently_ unique identifier. It is used on persisting entered data to the user's local storage and on sending all presented forms' input data to some remote service eventually. 

That's why the identifier should be uniquely addressing the occasion for presenting the form such as a particular checkout process or participation in a survey, no matter if the user is opening same forms multiple times on multiple occasions of same type doing so simultaneously or in a distance of years. 

If a user is permitted to run the same sequence of forms multiple times on different occasions by intention different IDs should be provided in this option each time the user is running it. On the other hand if you want to support user filling the form successively over multiple invocations you need to provide same ID.

##### name

* Type: `string`
* Default: value of `id`
* Localizable: no

Every sequence of forms may have a name which is an _temporary_ identifier to distinguish it from multiple sequences injected into the same HTML document. Thus it should be unique in context of a running HTML document, but it doesn't need to be permanently unique like the ID.

##### definition

* Type: `string`
* Default: _none_
* Localizable: no

This is the URL of a JSON file defining forms to be processed. See the separate description on [how to define a sequence of forms](definition/README.md).

### `addField( typeName, implementationOrFactory )`

This method registers type of field with current instance of Forms Processor. This type of field becomes available in all sequences of forms _created afterwards_.

* `typeName` is a string containing the name of type of field to be registered. This name is normalized by means of being trimmed and converted to all lowercase characters.
* `implementationOrFactory` is either some _class_ implementing particular behaviour of new type of field or some function generating this implementation on demand.

See the separate document on [how to create custom types of fields](./definition/fields/custom-fields.md) for more details.

### `addProcessor( typeName, implementationOrFactory )`

When user is submitting last form in a sequence of forms a defined sequence of input data processors is invoked passing data returned by one input data processor into next one. The list of input data processors is customized in definition of sequence of forms.

This method enables registration of new types of input data processors with current instance of Forms Processor to be available in all sequences of forms _created afterwards_.

* `typeName` is a string containing the name of type of input data processor to be registered. This name is normalized by means of being trimmed and converted to all lowercase characters.
* `implementationOrFactory` is either some _class_ implementing particular behaviour of new type of input data processor or some function generating this implementation on demand. In most cases providing factory function is preferred as it enables implementation to be properly derived from abstract base class as required by FormsProcessor.

  The factory function is invoked with [required base class of generated implementation](https://git.cepharum.de/cepharum/forms/client/blob/develop/src/model/form/processor/abstract.js). To simplify inheritance setup with legacy Javascript this class exposes static method `makeInherit()` to be invoked with constructor function of new _class_ to become type's implementation. You need to set up inheritance before replacing elements of related prototype.
  
  ```javascript
  FormsProcessor.addProcessor( "encrypt", function( abstract ) {
    const encryptor = abstract.makeInherit( function( definition ) {
      this.$super( definition );
    
      // put your constructor code here
    } );

    encryptor.prototype.process = function( data ) {
      return Promise.resolve( data );  	
    };

    return encryptor;
  } );
  ```
  
  The same is possible with ES6 classes probably requiring to transpile the code for supporting older browsers:

  ```javascript
  FormsProcessor.addProcessor( "encrypt", function( Abstract ) {
    return class EncryptProcessor extends Abstract {
      process( data ) {
        return Promise.resolve( data );  	
      }
    };
  } );
  ```

A custom input data processor must overload this method:

* `process( data )` ([see source](https://git.cepharum.de/cepharum/forms/client/blob/develop/src/model/form/processor/abstract.js#L59))

  This method is invoked with all input data provided by user while filling the forms in a sequence (in case of being first selected input data processor) or with data as returned from previous input data processor in a row of such processors.
  
  Every input data processor should return some data. Whenever an input data processor isn't adjusting the provided data it should return the originally provided data, at least. By returning promise for resulting data the method may start asynchronous processes. This will defer invocation of further input data processors.

### `addTermFunction( functionName, implementation )`

Terms are supported in most parts of definition. This method registers custom function available in terms. The provided function implementation - which is a function - is invoked in context of field the containing term is used with.

* `functionName` is the case-insensitive name of function in scope in any term.
* `implementation` is the function itself. It may take any number of arguments and it is expected to return some new value. `this` is referring to the instance of field containing term is used with.

### `addTranslations( locale, translationsOverlay )`

FormsProcessor has internationalization support built in. Internal fields use lookup trees providing translations for current locale. This method is provided to add custom overlays to extend or replace existing entries in a translation tree.

::: tip Info
Translations are organized as "trees" by means of mapping some lookup string into a translation or into another object mapping from lookup strings into a translation or yet another object etc.
:::

On rendering hints and errors on a field code might use `@` followed by a translation's name using dot notation syntax instead of some actual string to be used. Abstract field implementation will detect those strings and look up related translations for eventual use. On adding custom fields and processors you may use this syntax in combination with additional translations to utilize this localization support.

Any provided overlay of translations is associated with a particular locale to be selected in first argument. Multiple overlays per locale may be provided in succeeding invocations of this method with each overlay extending or replacing elements of previously applied overlay.

Due to the fact that API works in a global scope probably managing multiple instances of FormsProcessor with each one considering different locale to be current one, there is no possibility using this API to detect current locale and provide translation for that locale, only. Due to controlling all instances of FormsProcessor your code might have an option to decide what translations is required, though.

Applying translations affect FormsProcessor instances created afterwards, only.

### `FormsProcessor.runConfiguration()`


By invoking `FormsProcessor.runConfiguration()` a single configuration defining fields and processors to register as well as sequences of forms to inject in current HTML document is conveniently customizing injected Forms Processor. The provided configuration is expected to basically comply with one of two structures.

### Simple Structure

If you don't want to register any custom input processor or type of field it's sufficient to provide an array of form components to be injected into HTML document as soon as the forms processor has been loaded.

Every element in this array is yet another array consisting of these sub-elements:

1. First sub-element is a reference on an HTML element or a CSS query used to select first matching element of current HTML document. This element will be used to attach another forms component to.
2. Second sub-element is an object providing individual customizations of forms component to be injected. This includes provision of URL used to fetch forms' definition from.

### Complex Structure

In case you want to register custom input processors or additional types of fields you need to use a more complex structure. It starts with an object containing one or more of the following properties:

#### sequences

This property takes an array of component descriptors to be processed as soon as the forms processor has been loaded. This array is equivalent to the simple structure of configuration described before. 

#### fields

This object maps names a field's type name into a function returning class instantiated for every field of that type used in injected forms' definition. This pattern is required due to any such class must properly inherit from an abstract base class defined by loaded forms processor. Thus you can't preliminary configure custom types of fields without loading the forms processor first but have to postpone definition of a type's class until then. 

The factory callback is invoked with required base class in its first argument. This base class is exposing static method `makeInherit()` taking constructor of the desired sub-class to help with creating an actually inheriting class the original way. 

```javascript
function generateNewType( abstract ) {
	const newType = abstract.makeInherit( function( form, definition, fieldIndex, reactiveFieldInfo ) {
		this.$super( form, definition, fieldIndex, reactiveFieldInfo );
	} );

	newType.prototype.validate = function() { ... };

	return newType;
}
```

Of course using ES6 class syntax is possible as well:

```javascript
function generateNewType( abstract ) {
	return class NewType extends abstract {
		validate() { ... };
	};
}
```

#### processors

This object works mostly similar to the one in property `fields` above but maps type names of custom input processors into functions invoked with a different abstract base class for generating the related class of input processor instances per type.
